#LyX 1.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 218
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme pslatex
\graphics default
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 0.5in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 0.5in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Configuring Perdition Proxy Software to Use An Existing LDAP Server
\layout Author

Richard L.
 Holbert
\layout Part*

Introduction
\layout Standard

The Perdition proxy server software was designed by Simon Horman as part
 of a high availability email system.
 Perdition allows an ISP to distribute end user mail boxes over several
 servers seamlessly.
 All the end users connect through the proxy server(s) to retrieve their
 email via POP, and/or IMAP.
 User redirection information can be stored using a variety of methods including
: gdbm, NIS, regular expressions, relational data bases (MySQL, PostgreSQL),
 and LDAP.
\layout Standard

The main perdition web site is 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url{http://www.vergenet.net/linux/perdition/}

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

The author's email address is: horms@vergenet.net
\layout Standard

Perdition also requires that the VAnessa (VA Network Enhanced Scalable Server
 Architecture) libraries be installed.
 The VAnessa web site is at: 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url{http://www.vergenet.net/linux/vanessa/}

\end_inset 

.
 Both sets of tools were downloaded from: ftp.vergenet.net, and installed
 on my Linux workstation using the Redhat Package Manager (RPM).
 In a production environment, Perdition and VAnessa should be installed
 on a set of dedicated servers.
\layout Standard

Perdition comes with a tool to populate an empty OpenLDAP server with its
 default schema, perditiondb_ldap_makedb.
 However, as we already have several existing, populated, iPlanet LDAP servers
 along with an infrastucture to maintain the information in them, I decided
 to adapt Perdition to use our existing servers' schemas.
 
\layout Part*

LDAP URLs
\layout Standard

Perdition extracts information from LDAP via specially configured URLs.
\layout Standard

LDAP URLs are documented in RFC 2255 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url{http://www.cis.ohio-state.edu/cgi-bin/rfc/rfc2255.html}

\end_inset 

, and the iPlanet Directory Server Administrator's Guide (Appendix C) 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \url{http://docs.iplanet.com/docs/manuals/directory/51/html/ag/url.htm#1915312}

\end_inset 

.
\layout Standard

LDAP URLs have the following format:
\layout Standard

ldap[s]://hostname[:port]/search_base?attributes?scope?filter
\layout Standard

Cleartext connections are made using the ldap:// protocol, and encrypted
 (SSL) conections are made using the ldaps:// protocol.
\layout Standard
\align center 
LDAP URL Components:
\layout Standard
\pextra_type 3 \pextra_widthp 75


\begin_inset  Tabular
<lyxtabular version="2" rows="7" columns="2">
<features rotate="false" islongtable="false" endhead="0" endfirsthead="0" endfoot="0" endlastfoot="0">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="false" width="" special="">
<column alignment="left" valignment="top" leftline="true" rightline="true" width="" special="">
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="1" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="1.0in" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Component
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="1" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="4.5in" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Definition
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="1" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

hostname
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="1" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="4.5in" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard
\noindent \align left 
Server name, or numerical ip address.
 Example, ldap.mydomain.edu, or 10.10.220.90
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

port
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="1" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="4.5in" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

The LDAP service's port number.
 Example, 389, or 636 if using the secure (ldaps) protocol.
 A blank here defaults to 389 for ldap, and 636 for ldaps.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

search_base
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="1" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="4.5in" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Consists of an entry's distinguished name (DN).
 The search_base tells Perdition where to start its search.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

attributes
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="1" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="4.5in" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Names of the LDAP fields to be returned.
 A blank here returns all visible attributes.
 The port attribute is optional if standard POP3, and IMAP4 ports are being
 used.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="false" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

scope
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="1" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="4.5in" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Scope consists of one of the following: base, one, or sub.
 For all the schemas tested, Perdition seems to work with either one, or
 sub, but not with base.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
<row topline="true" bottomline="true" newpage="false">
<cell multicolumn="0" alignment="center" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="false" leftline="true" rightline="false" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

filter
\end_inset 
</cell>
<cell multicolumn="1" alignment="left" valignment="top" topline="true" bottomline="true" leftline="true" rightline="true" rotate="false" usebox="none" width="4.5in" special="">
\begin_inset Text

\layout Standard

Criteria to be used within the scope of the search.
 Example, (uid=%25s).
 The %25s gets replaced with the userid supplied by the user's email client.
\end_inset 
</cell>
</row>
</lyxtabular>

\end_inset 


\layout Part*

Configuration
\layout Standard

Recommended configuration approach: via changes to /etc/perdition/perdition.conf
 file.
 To configure Perdition to use LDAP, add the following lines:
\layout Standard

M /usr/lib/libperditiondb_ldap.so
\layout Standard

m ldap://hostname.mydomain.com:port/ou=mailbox,dc=mydomain.com,dc=com?user-name,mai
lhost,port?one?(uid=%25s)
\layout Standard

Substitute your server's name, ldap port, search_base, etc.
\layout Standard

Another approach is to modify perditions startup script by appending the
 -M and -m values from above to the proxies command line.
\layout Part*

Rapid Testing
\layout Standard

A web browser, such as Netscape, Konqueror, Mozilla, etc.
 can be used in conjunction with a GUI LDAP tool, like GQ, to derive and
 test LDAP queries.
\layout Standard

The ficticious iplanet-ldap server uses iPlanet's messaging server schema.
\layout Standard

The following is a screen shot of iplanet-ldap's tree structure.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 360 216
file mail-ldapdump.eps
subcaption MAIL-LDAP Tree Structure
width 2 5
height 2 3
flags 11

\end_inset 


\layout Standard

However, directoryserver4, and directoryserver5 use a modified eduPerson
 schema.
 As a result, the search bases differ.
\layout Standard

Here's a screen shot of directoryserver5's tree structure.
\layout Standard
\added_space_top 0.3cm \added_space_bottom 0.3cm \align center 

\begin_inset Figure size 360 216
file ds5dump.eps
subcaption DS5 Tree Structure
width 2 5
height 2 3
flags 11

\end_inset 


\newline 

\layout Standard

The access controlls for directoryserver5 had to be modified to make the
 mailhost attribute visible from anonymous binds.
\layout Standard

Some example LDAP queries along with their results are as follows:
\layout Standard

ldap://iplanet-ldap.mydomain.edu:389/ou=people,o=mydomain.edu,o=internet?uid,mailho
st?one?(uid=smith.13)
\layout LyX-Code

dn: uid=smith.13,ou=People, o=mydomain.edu, o=internet
\layout LyX-Code

uid: smith.13
\layout LyX-Code

mailhost: mail2.service.mydomain.edu
\layout Standard

ldap://directoryserver5.service.mydomain.edu:20389/ou=people,dc=osu,dc=edu?uid,mail
host,port?one?(uid=jones.6)
\layout LyX-Code

dn: mydomainEduID=397427, ou=People, dc=mydomain, dc=edu
\layout LyX-Code

uid: jones.6
\layout LyX-Code

mailhost: mail1.service.mydomain.edu
\layout Standard

Notice how the order of the search base dn starts with the bottom of the
 tree, and works its way back up the tree.
 Also note that in this example, directoryserver5 uses non-standard port,
 20389 for LDAP.
\layout Part*

Extensions
\layout Standard

The basic LDAP URL can be extended in two ways.
\layout Standard

If the LDAP servers are using standard ports, then multiple servers can
 be used in the LDAP URL.
 For example:
\layout Standard

ldap://ldap1 ldap2 ldap3/ou=people,o=mydomain.edu,o=internet?uid,mailhost,port?on
e?(uid=smith.13)
\layout Standard

So far, all the examples have used anonymous binds to connect to the LDAP
 servers.
 The LDAP URL may be extended using the bindname, and x-bindpw attributes
 as follows:
\layout Standard

ldap://ldap1:389/ou=people,o=mydomain.edu,o=internet?uid,mailhost,port?one?(uid=s
mith.13)?!
\newline 
bindname=cn=admin,x-bindpw=secret
\layout Standard

or
\layout Standard

ldaps://secure-ldap:636/ou=people,o=mydomain.edu,o=internet?uid,mailhost?one?(uid
=smith.13)?!
\newline 
bindname=cn=super%20admin,x-bindpw=bigsecret
\layout Part*

Testing
\layout Standard

I conducted several tests using telnet, and a reconfigured email client.
 I was able to retrieve mail from any of our existing mail servers by pointing
 my email client at the Perdition proxy running on localhost.
 Changing the value of my mailhost attribute in LDAP caused the proxy to
 redirect my retrieval requests to the appropriate mail server.
\the_end
